centreon-dsm/doc/user/index.rst, before:

.. _user_guide:

##########
User guide
##########

Overview
--------

Centreon module, Dynamic Service Management (Centreon-DSM) is an extention
to manage alarms with a eventlogs system. With DSM, Centreon can receive events 
as SNMP traps resulting from the detection of a problem and to assign these 
events to the slots dynamicaly defined in Centreon, like a tray events.

A resource has a set number of "slots" (containers) on which alerts will be 
assigned (stored). While this event has not been taken into account by a human 
action, it will remain visible in the interface Centreon once event acknowledged, 
the slot becomes available for new events.

The goal of this module is to overhead the basic trap management system of
Centreon. The basic function run with a single service and alarm crashed by
successive alarms.


Architecture
------------

The event must be transmitted to the server via an SNMP trap Centreon format 
v2c. The SNMP trap is thus collected by the snmptrapd daemon. If reception 
parameters are valid (authorized community), then it sends snmptrapd trap
SNMP binary SNMPTT. Otherwise, the event is deleted.

SNMPTT will check these configuration files (in the directory "/etc/snmp/centreon_traps/") 
as the definition of the SNMP trap exists. Otherwise, the event is deleted. 
If a definition exists for the OID associated the event, it is then transmitted 
to the binary "centTrapHandler-2x."

Binary "centTrapHandler-2x" will then search in database "centreon" if the 
OID of the SNMP trap is attached to at least one service host that generated 
the SNMP trap. If this is not the case, the event is deleted, otherwise binary 
"centTrapHandler-2x" will then see if a special order ("Special Command") 
is associated with the definition of the SNMP trap.

This special command is executing binary "dsmclient.pl" with these arguments. 
This client will store the new trap in a slot queue that the daemon read every 
5 seconds. 

The daemon dsmd.pl will search in database "centreon" name slots (pool service 
liabilities) associated with the host. If no slot is created, the event 
is deleted. Otherwise, the binary will look if there is at least one free 
slot. If at least one slot is free, then it will transmit to Nagios external 
commands to change the state of the slot. Otherwise the data will be made no 
secret pending the release of a slot. A slot is releasable served by paying 
the liabilities. 


Configure Slots
---------------

In Centreon WebUI, go on Administration > Mo dules > Dynamic Services and clic on 
t he "add" link. In order to create or modify  a slot group, please follow the table
b ellow in order to understand the role of al l parameters.

+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Parameters                    |Descriptions                  |
+==============================+==============================+
|Name                          |This is the name of the slot  |
|                              |group.                        |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Description                   |This is the description of the|
|                              |group.                        |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Host Name                     |The name which host the slots.|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Service template base         |The base service template use |
|                              |to create service slots on the|
|                              |host. This template must have |
|                              |been a passive template. This |
|                              |template must be 100 % passif |
|                              |and a custom macro have to be |
|                              |created on it. The macro is   |
|                              |named "ALARM_ID" and the      |
|                              |default value must be "empty".|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Number of slots               |The number of slot that       |
|                              |Centreon will create on the   |
|                              |selected host when the form   |
|                              |will be validated.            |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Slot name prefix              |The prefix is user to give the|
|                              |name of slots. The name will  |
|                              |be follow by a number         |
|                              |incremented from 0 to the     |
|                              |number of slots.              |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Check command                 |This check command is used    |
|                              |when the servie have to be    |
|                              |forced in order to free a     |
|                              |slot. The check command must  |
|                              |have to send a ok return code.|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Status                        |The status of the slot.       |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+

You can find in the following picture, an example of form.

.. image:: /_static/use/form-slot.png
   :align: center

An example of passif service template is available below:
 
.. image:: /_static/use/form-passif-service.png
   :align: center


When you validate the form, Centreon will create of update all slot. If you don't 
have changed any value, you don't have to do nother action. Else you have to go to 
Configuration > Monitoring Engine in order to generate configuration of the poller 
who have been impacted by the changes. If you don't do that, you will not see your 
changes appears into Centreon Monitoring UI.

.. image:: /_static/use/conf-test.png
   :align: center

Ok the configuration has been generated and validated by Centreon Engine. You can now 
push the configuration fils and restart.

.. image:: /_static/use/conf-restart.png
   :align: center


Configure traps
---------------

The last step is to configure traps that you want to redirected to you slots. This
configuration is a little complexe for the moment but we will try to simplify it 
for the next versions of Centreon DSM.

Edit a SNMP trap that you want to redirect to slots systems. Go on Configuration > 
SNMP traps. You find the following form : 

.. image:: /_static/use/trap-form.png
   :align: center

In order to redirect alarms to slots, you have to enable "Execute special command" in 
the form and add the following command into the "special command" field ::

  /usr/share/centreon/bin/dsmclient.pl -H @HOSTADDRESS@ -o 'Example output : $*' -id 'linkdown' -s 1 -t @TIME@

This command launch for each trap received this command in order to redirect alarms to 
dsmd daemon. 
This command take some parameters. You can find in the foolowing table the list and
the description of each parameter:

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|Parameters                    |Description                              |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-H                            |Host address (ip or name) in which you   |
|                              |want to redirect the alarm. You can pass |
|                              |the valure @HOSTADDRESS@ in order to keep|
|                              |the same host or you can use whatever you|
|                              |want in order to centralised all alarms  |
|                              |on the same virtual host for exemple who |
|                              |host all alarms.                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-o                            |This is the output that dsm will put when|
|                              |the command will submut the result in the|
|                              |good slot. This output can be build will |
|                              |all $* value and with a specific string  |
|                              |that you pass in parameter.              |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-i                            |[optional] This is the id of the         |
|                              |alarm. The alarm id can be build with the|
|                              |concatenation of some variables like     |
|                              |"$1-$4". The id enable the possibility to|
|                              |use the option of auto-acknowledgement of|
|                              |alarm when you have the possibility to   |
|                              |create the same id during the opening and|
|                              |the closing treatment of the alarm.      |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-s                            |This is the status that you want to pass |
|                              |in parameter to the alarm. You can use   |
|                              |@STATUS@ in order to use the inherited   |
|                              |status build from matching rule system.  |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-t                            |This is the time that you want to pass to|
|                              |dsm in order to keep the real trap       |
|                              |reception time.                          |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-m                            |This is the list of macros and its values|
|                              |that you want to update during the       |
|                              |treatment of the alarm. Please follow the|
|                              |syntax bellow :                          |
|                              |macro1=value1|macro2=value2|macro3=value3|
|                              |This fuction is used to update some      |
|                              |parameters in live on the nagios or      |
|                              |Centreon-Engine core memory without a    |
|                              |restart.                                 |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Your form should now be like that : 

.. image:: /_static/use/trap-form-2.png
   :align: center

After saving the form, please generate the SNMP traps configuration file. Go on 
Configuration > SNMP Traps > Generate, select your poller, select generate and 
validate the form. 

You should now have DSM actif for all traps that you have configured.


Configure Traps links
---------------------

One think is different compared to Centreon Trap system is that you cannot link 
directly the service template of the slot to the trap in order to not received
x time the trap (x represent here the number of slots). You have to create 
dummy service completely passif. This service will be link to the trap that 
you want to redirect to slots. You can call this service trap-link. This service 
can stay disable in order to not show it in the monitoring page. 


Test your platforme
-------------------

Commit message:

add warning for macro ALARM_ID

centreon-dsm/doc/user/index.rst, after:

.. _user_guide:

##########
User guide
##########

Overview
--------

Centreon module, Dynamic Service Management (Centreon-DSM) is an extention
to manage alarms with a eventlogs system. With DSM, Centreon can receive events 
as SNMP traps resulting from the detection of a problem and to assign these 
events to the slots dynamicaly defined in Centreon, like a tray events.

A resource has a set number of "slots" (containers) on which alerts will be 
assigned (stored). While this event has not been taken into account by a human 
action, it will remain visible in the interface Centreon once event acknowledged, 
the slot becomes available for new events.

The goal of this module is to overhead the basic trap management system of
Centreon. The basic function run with a single service and alarm crashed by
successive alarms.


Architecture
------------

The event must be transmitted to the server via an SNMP trap Centreon format 
v2c. The SNMP trap is thus collected by the snmptrapd daemon. If reception 
parameters are valid (authorized community), then it sends snmptrapd trap
SNMP binary SNMPTT. Otherwise, the event is deleted.

SNMPTT will check these configuration files (in the directory "/etc/snmp/centreon_traps/") 
as the definition of the SNMP trap exists. Otherwise, the event is deleted. 
If a definition exists for the OID associated the event, it is then transmitted 
to the binary "centTrapHandler-2x."

Binary "centTrapHandler-2x" will then search in database "centreon" if the 
OID of the SNMP trap is attached to at least one service host that generated 
the SNMP trap. If this is not the case, the event is deleted, otherwise binary 
"centTrapHandler-2x" will then see if a special order ("Special Command") 
is associated with the definition of the SNMP trap.

This special command is executing binary "dsmclient.pl" with these arguments. 
This client will store the new trap in a slot queue that the daemon read every 
5 seconds. 

The daemon dsmd.pl will search in database "centreon" name slots (pool service 
liabilities) associated with the host. If no slot is created, the event 
is deleted. Otherwise, the binary will look if there is at least one free 
slot. If at least one slot is free, then it will transmit to Nagios external 
commands to change the state of the slot. Otherwise the data will be made no 
secret pending the release of a slot. A slot is releasable served by paying 
the liabilities. 


Configure Slots
---------------

In Centreon WebUI, go on Administration > Mo dules > Dynamic Services and clic on 
t he "add" link. In order to create or modify  a slot group, please follow the table
b ellow in order to understand the role of al l parameters.

+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Parameters                    |Descriptions                  |
+==============================+==============================+
|Name                          |This is the name of the slot  |
|                              |group.                        |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Description                   |This is the description of the|
|                              |group.                        |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Host Name                     |The name which host the slots.|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Service template base         |The base service template use |
|                              |to create service slots on the|
|                              |host. This template must have |
|                              |been a passive template. This |
|                              |template must be 100 % passif |
|                              |and a custom macro have to be |
|                              |created on it. The macro is   |
|                              |named "ALARM_ID" and the      |
|                              |default value must be "empty".|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Number of slots               |The number of slot that       |
|                              |Centreon will create on the   |
|                              |selected host when the form   |
|                              |will be validated.            |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Slot name prefix              |The prefix is user to give the|
|                              |name of slots. The name will  |
|                              |be follow by a number         |
|                              |incremented from 0 to the     |
|                              |number of slots.              |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Check command                 |This check command is used    |
|                              |when the servie have to be    |
|                              |forced in order to free a     |
|                              |slot. The check command must  |
|                              |have to send a ok return code.|
+------------------------------+------------------------------+
|Status                        |The status of the slot.       |
+------------------------------+------------------------------+

You can find in the following picture, an example of form.

.. image:: /_static/use/form-slot.png
   :align: center

An example of passif service template is available below:
 
.. image:: /_static/use/form-passif-service.png
   :align: center

WARNING: The macro ALARM_ID is mandatory. The default empty is also necessary.


When you validate the form, Centreon will create of update all slot. If you don't 
have changed any value, you don't have to do nother action. Else you have to go to 
Configuration > Monitoring Engine in order to generate configuration of the poller 
who have been impacted by the changes. If you don't do that, you will not see your 
changes appears into Centreon Monitoring UI.

.. image:: /_static/use/conf-test.png
   :align: center

Ok the configuration has been generated and validated by Centreon Engine. You can now 
push the configuration fils and restart.

.. image:: /_static/use/conf-restart.png
   :align: center


Configure traps
---------------

The last step is to configure traps that you want to redirected to you slots. This
configuration is a little complexe for the moment but we will try to simplify it 
for the next versions of Centreon DSM.

Edit a SNMP trap that you want to redirect to slots systems. Go on Configuration > 
SNMP traps. You find the following form : 

.. image:: /_static/use/trap-form.png
   :align: center

In order to redirect alarms to slots, you have to enable "Execute special command" in 
the form and add the following command into the "special command" field ::

  /usr/share/centreon/bin/dsmclient.pl -H @HOSTADDRESS@ -o 'Example output : $*' -id 'linkdown' -s 1 -t @TIME@

This command launch for each trap received this command in order to redirect alarms to 
dsmd daemon. 
This command take some parameters. You can find in the foolowing table the list and
the description of each parameter:

+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|Parameters                    |Description                              |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-H                            |Host address (ip or name) in which you   |
|                              |want to redirect the alarm. You can pass |
|                              |the valure @HOSTADDRESS@ in order to keep|
|                              |the same host or you can use whatever you|
|                              |want in order to centralised all alarms  |
|                              |on the same virtual host for exemple who |
|                              |host all alarms.                         |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-o                            |This is the output that dsm will put when|
|                              |the command will submut the result in the|
|                              |good slot. This output can be build will |
|                              |all $* value and with a specific string  |
|                              |that you pass in parameter.              |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-i                            |[optional] This is the id of the         |
|                              |alarm. The alarm id can be build with the|
|                              |concatenation of some variables like     |
|                              |"$1-$4". The id enable the possibility to|
|                              |use the option of auto-acknowledgement of|
|                              |alarm when you have the possibility to   |
|                              |create the same id during the opening and|
|                              |the closing treatment of the alarm.      |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-s                            |This is the status that you want to pass |
|                              |in parameter to the alarm. You can use   |
|                              |@STATUS@ in order to use the inherited   |
|                              |status build from matching rule system.  |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-t                            |This is the time that you want to pass to|
|                              |dsm in order to keep the real trap       |
|                              |reception time.                          |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
|-m                            |This is the list of macros and its values|
|                              |that you want to update during the       |
|                              |treatment of the alarm. Please follow the|
|                              |syntax bellow :                          |
|                              |macro1=value1|macro2=value2|macro3=value3|
|                              |This fuction is used to update some      |
|                              |parameters in live on the nagios or      |
|                              |Centreon-Engine core memory without a    |
|                              |restart.                                 |
+------------------------------+-----------------------------------------+

Your form should now be like that : 

.. image:: /_static/use/trap-form-2.png
   :align: center

After saving the form, please generate the SNMP traps configuration file. Go on 
Configuration > SNMP Traps > Generate, select your poller, select generate and 
validate the form. 

You should now have DSM actif for all traps that you have configured.


Configure Traps links
---------------------

One think is different compared to Centreon Trap system is that you cannot link 
directly the service template of the slot to the trap in order to not received
x time the trap (x represent here the number of slots). You have to create 
dummy service completely passif. This service will be link to the trap that 
you want to redirect to slots. You can call this service trap-link. This service 
can stay disable in order to not show it in the monitoring page. 


Test your platforme
-------------------
